---
layout: default
title: ICS 101
topdiv: container
---

# ICS 101: Tools for the Information Age



**Description**: Fundamental concepts and terms of computer technology, application software for problem solving, computer technology trends and impact on individuals and society.

**Objectives**

* Students will develop a broad overview of various areas of computer science.
* Students will learn to select and use software to solve problems.
* Students will develop an understanding of productivity.
* Students will develop an understanding of multimedia.
* Students will understand the importance of learning core skills and keeping their skills up-to-date. 
* Students will learn how to use different types of operating systems.
* Students will work in teams to present information.

**Course Learning Outcomes**

* Students will develop a broad understanding of various areas of computer science.
* Students will learn how to search for information using Boolean operators.
* Students will learn how data is transferred on the Internet. 
* Students will learn to select and use software to solve problems.
* Students will use productivity and multimedia software in their areas of interest.
* Students will understand the importance of learning core skills and keeping their skills up-to-date. 
* Students will learn how to use text-based and GUI-based operating systems.
* Students will work in teams to present information.

**Program Learning Outcomes**

* a. Students can apply knowledge of computing and mathematics appropriate to the discipline
* b. Students can analyze a problem, and identify and define the computing requirements appropriate to its solution
* d. Students can function effectively on teams to accomplish a common goal
* e. Students have an understanding of professional, ethical, legal, security and social issues and responsibilities
* f. Students can communicate effectively with a range of audiences
* h. Students can recognize the need for and an ability to engage in continuing professional development
* i. Students can use current techniques, skills, and tools necessary for computing practice
* j. An ability to use and apply current technical concepts and practices in the core information technologies. [BA IT only]
* m. An understanding of best practices and standards and their application. [BA IT only]
* n. An ability to assist in the creation of an effective project plan. [BA IT only]


**Textbook(s)**: ICS 101 Workbook (Department of Information and Computer Sciences, SimNet software (McGraw-Hill), iClicker

**Grading**

* Lecture activities (~10%), 
* On-line lectures (~15%), 
* 3 exams/tests (~20%), 
* 4 practical quizzes (~15%), 
* Simulation assignments (~15%), 
* Projects (~25%)

**Schedule**

* Week 1: Orientation, OS basics, boolean searching, email
* Week 2: Information assurance, file management, file compression, word processing, 
* Week 3: Networking, word processing, 
* Week 4: Number systems, presentations, 
* Week 5: presentations skills, presentation development, 
* Week 6: Databases, spreadsheets, 
* Week 7: exam, spreadsheets, 
* Week 8: Conditional logic, spreadsheets, 
* Week 9: Computer visualization, spreadsheets, 
* Week 10: History and anatomy of computer games, vector graphics, 
* Week 11: Computer graphics, bitmap graphics, 
* Week 12: Social computing, text-based operating systems, 
* Week 13: Interface design, Web development, 
* Week 14: algorithms, Web development, 
* Week 15: introduction to programming, 
* Week 16: Review, 
* Week 17: final exam