---
layout: default
title: ICS 215
topdiv: container
---

# ICS 215: Introduction to Scripting



**Description**: Introduction to scripting languages for the integration of applications and systems. Scripting in operating systems, web pages, server-side application integration, regular expressions, event handling, input validation, selection, repetition, parameter passing, Perl, JavaScript, and PHP. A-F only. Pre: 211 (or concurrent), or consent. (Once a year)

**Objectives**

* Use regular expressions to solve different problems.
* Produce robust client and server side scripts in a variety of scripting languages using software engineering techniques such as review and extensive program testing.
* Handle user and system generated events using various scripting languages.
* Validate user input using various scripting languages for security purposes.

**Course Learning Outcomes**: See objectives.

**Program Learning Outcomes**

* b. Students can analyze a problem, and identify and define the computing requirements appropriate to its solution
* c. Students can design, implement, and evaluate a computer-based system, process, component, or program to meet desired needs
* d. Students can function effectively on teams to accomplish a common goal
* f. Students can communicate effectively with a range of audiences
* i. Students can use current techniques, skills, and tools necessary for computing practice


**Prerequisites**: 211 (or concurrent), or consent.

**Textbook(s)**: none, Class Notes.

**Grading**: In class quizzes (100%)

**Schedule**

* Week 1: Introduction, course description and rules
* Weeks 2 - 4: Regular Expressions
* Weeks 5 - 7: JavaScript
* Weeks 8 - 10: PHP
* Weeks 11 - 13: Perl
* Weeks 14 - 16: Python