---
layout: default
title: ICS 211
topdiv: container
---

# ICS 211: Introduction to Computer Science II



**Description**: Reinforce and strengthen problem-solving skills using abstract data types and introduce software development practices. Emphasize the use of searching and sorting algorithms and their complexity, recursion, object-oriented programming, and data structures.

**Objectives**

* Learn and implement standard data structures, including linked lists, stacks, queues, hash tables, and binary trees.
* Learn and implement standard algorithms for sorting and searching and tree traversal
* Learn and use the basics of algorithm analysis and complexity, including big-O notation
* Be exposed to software engineering techniques such as: abstract data types, separation of definition and implementation, encapsulation, information hiding, testing and code reviews.
* Learn and use object oriented programming in Java by designing, implementing, reviewing and testing solutions to problems
* Learn to write algebraic equations in prefix, infix and postfix notation using preorder, inorder and postorder traversals
* Learning to program in Java is only one of the goals for this course, but may be the most important: fluency in Java is needed to apply many of the other tools and information presented in this course as well as in subsequent ICS courses.

**Course Learning Outcomes**

* Use and implement abstract data types such as lists, stacks, queues, and trees.
* Select the appropriate searching or sorting algorithm base on the algorithm’s behavior.
* Develop recursive algorithms and programs.
* Use standard libraries or packages as well as advanced object-oriented programming techniques (polymorphism, inheritance, and encapsulation).
* Produce robust and secure programs using exception handling and extensive program testing.

**Program Learning Outcomes**

* a. Students can apply knowledge of computing and mathematics appropriate to the discipline
* b. Students can analyze a problem, and identify and define the computing requirements appropriate to its solution
* c. Students can design, implement, and evaluate a computer-based system, process, component, or program to meet desired needs
* i. Students can use current techniques, skills, and tools necessary for computing practice
* j. An ability to use and apply current technical concepts and practices in the core information technologies. [BA IT only]


**Prerequisites**: grade of "B" or higher in 111 or consent.

**Textbook(s)**: Data Structures: Abstraction and Design Using Java, Second Edition, by Elliot B. Koffman and Paul A. T. Wolfgang, Wiley 2010.

**Grading**

* Two midterm exams and a final (~30%)
* Assignments (~40%)
* Lecture quizzes (~15%)
* Lab attendance (~15%)

**Schedule**

* Week 1 - Java Review
* Week 2 - Object Oriented Programming
* Week 3 - Simple Sorting
* Week 4 - Array Lists
* Week 5 - Linked Lists
* Week 6 - Iterators
* Week 7 - Midterm 1
* Week 8 - Stacks
* Week 9 - Queues
* Week 10 - Recursion
* Week 11 - Trees
* Week 12 - Binary Data
* Week 13 - Midterm 2
* Week 14 - Complex Sorting Algorithms
* Week 15 - Hashtables
* Week 16 - Course Review