---
layout: default
title: ICS 332
topdiv: container
---

# ICS 332: Operating Systems



**Description**: Operating system concepts and structure, processes and threads, CPU scheduling, memory management, scheduling, file systems, inter-process communication, virtualization, popular operating systems. A-F only.

**Objectives**

* Role of operating systems.
* Principles of operating system design and kernel implementation.
* Key features of operating systems of practical importance, including Linux and Windows.
* Principles of and gain hands-on experience with memory and virtual memory
management
* Principles of and and gain hands-on experience with process and thread
management
• Principles of and gain hands-on experience with process and thread
communication
* File systems design principles

**Program Learning Outcomes**

* c. Students can design, implement, and evaluate a computer-based system, process, component, or program to meet desired needs
* g. Students can analyze the local and global impact of computing on individuals, organizations, and society
* h. Students can recognize the need for and an ability to engage in continuing professional development
* i. Students can use current techniques, skills, and tools necessary for computing practice
* j. An ability to use and apply current technical concepts and practices in the core information technologies. [BA IT only]
* k. An ability to identify and analyze user needs and take them into account in the selection, creation, evaluation and administration of computer-based systems. [BA IT only]
* l. An ability to effectively integrate IT-based solutions into the user environment. [BA IT only]
* m. An understanding of best practices and standards and their application. [BA IT only]
* n. An ability to assist in the creation of an effective project plan. [BA IT only]


**Grading**: Homework (50%)
Quizzes, Midterm, Final (50%)

**Schedule**: Week 1: 
Week 2: 
Week 3: 
Week 4: 
Week 5: 
Week 6: 
Week 7: 
Week 8: 
Week 9: 
Week 10: 
Week 11: 
Week 12: 
Week 13: 
Week 14: 
Week 15: 
Week 16:
Week 17: Final exam