---
layout: default
title: ICS 311
topdiv: container
---

# ICS 311: Algorithms



**Description**: Design and correctness of algorithms, including divide-and-conquer, greedy and dynamic programming methods. Complexity analyses using recurrence relations, probabilistic methods, and NP-completeness. Applications to order statistics, disjoint sets, B-trees and balanced trees, graphs, network flows, and string matching.

**Objectives**

* To introduce a variety of topics in discrete mathematics
* To develop ability of modeling, reasoning, proving, analysis, and algorithmic problem solving
* To present examples of applications of discrete mathematics to computer science
* To have students learn mathematical writing as the basis of technical writing

**Course Learning Outcomes**

* Students are aware of fundamental algorithms of computer science, and their associated data structures and problem solving techniques.
* Students can compose a problem formulation of a real-world problem mathematically.
* Students can decide whether given pseudocode is correct for a given problem formulation; construct a counterexample if the given pseudocode is incorrect; and outline a proof for its correctness otherwise.
* Students can design a correct algorithm for a given problem and describe the algorithm as pseudocode in a given pseudocode syntax.
* Students can analyze the worst-case and best-case space and time complexities of a given algorithm.
* Students can create a software program for accurately implementing an algorithm specified in pseudocode. Students can implement software objects meeting Abstract Data Type specifications.
* Students can produce a software product including documentation for given requirements & design specifications.

**Program Learning Outcomes**

* a. Students can apply knowledge of computing and mathematics appropriate to the discipline
* b. Students can analyze a problem, and identify and define the computing requirements appropriate to its solution
* c. Students can design, implement, and evaluate a computer-based system, process, component, or program to meet desired needs
* f. Students can communicate effectively with a range of audiences


**Prerequisites**: 211 and 241, or consent.

**Textbook(s)**: Thomas H. Cormen, Charles E. Leiserson, Ronald L. Rivest and Clifford Stein, Introduction to Algorithms, Third Edition, The MIT Press, 2009.

**Grading**: 3 projects (worth 10% each)
3 midterms (worth 10% each)
in-class assignments (worth 20% total)
final exam (worth 20%)

**Policies**: 10% in-class
90% midterms and final

**Schedule**

* Week 1: Introduction
* Week 2: Growth of functions
* Week 3: Abstract data types
* Week 4: Probabilistic analysis
* Week 5: Hash tables
* Week 6: Divide and conquer algorithms
* Week 7: Binary search trees
* Week 8: Heap sort
* Week 9: Quick sort
* Week 10: Balanced trees
* Week 11: Dynamic programming
* Week 12: Greedy algorithms
* Week 13: Graphs
* Week 14: Amortized analysis
* Week 15: Disjoint sets
* Week 16: Review
* Week 17: Final exam

Each week requires reading one chapter from the text, approximately 30 pages on average per week.