---
layout: default
title: ICS 351
topdiv: container
---

# ICS 351: Network Design and Management



**Description**: Overview of the internet and its capabilities; introduction to HTTP, TCP/IP, ethernet, and wireless 802.11; routers, switches, and NAT; network and wireless security; practical experience in designing and implementing networks.

**Objectives**

* Design and build networks using routers and switches 
* Manage, monitor, and find problems with networks 
* Learn elements of the TCP/IP protocol suite 
* Become familiar with network configuration of routers and hosts 
* Learn about routing protocols in use in the Internet 
* Learn elements of network security, including firewalls and NAT

**Course Learning Outcomes**: See objectives.

**Program Learning Outcomes**

* a. Students can apply knowledge of computing and mathematics appropriate to the discipline
* b. Students can analyze a problem, and identify and define the computing requirements appropriate to its solution
* c. Students can design, implement, and evaluate a computer-based system, process, component, or program to meet desired needs
* d. Students can function effectively on teams to accomplish a common goal
* e. Students have an understanding of professional, ethical, legal, security and social issues and responsibilities
* h. Students can recognize the need for and an ability to engage in continuing professional development
* i. Students can use current techniques, skills, and tools necessary for computing practice
* j. An ability to use and apply current technical concepts and practices in the core information technologies. [BA IT only]
* l. An ability to effectively integrate IT-based solutions into the user environment. [BA IT only]
* m. An understanding of best practices and standards and their application. [BA IT only]
* n. An ability to assist in the creation of an effective project plan. [BA IT only]


**Prerequisites**: 141 and 211, or consent.

**Textbook(s)**: Mastering Networks -- An Internet Lab Manual 5.0", by Jörg Liebeherr and Magda el Zarki, 2004.

**Grading**: Labs (60%)
Quizzes (30%)
Final exam (10%)

**Policies**: Attendance is mandatory (but not graded). In particular, participation in the lab sessions is necessary in order to successfully do the lab reports.

Lab reports are due on time, with a loss of 20% of the points for every day they are late. Quizzes and exams must be taken early or on time, unless there are well-documented extenuating circumstances, in which case the same 20% per day rule will apply (and only if student makes special arrangements with the instructor to take the quiz late).

No food or drinks in the lab.

**Schedule**

* Week 1: Intro
* Week 2: Commands, network monitoring, protocols
* Week 3: Addressing, masks, routing
* Week 4: Masks, networks, subnetworks
* Week 5: Routing, OSPF, BGP
* Week 6: Routing, multi-casting
* Week 7: TCP
* Week 8: NAT, network configuration
* Week 9: DNS
* Week 10: 802.11, IPv6, HTTP
* Week 11: HTTPS, SNMP
* Week 12: Wireless ad-hoc networks
* Week 13: Security, 
* Week 14: Review
* Week 15: Networking problems and solutions
* Week 16: Networking problems and solutions
* Week 17: Final exam