---
layout: default
title: ICS 321
topdiv: container
---

# ICS 321: Data Storage and Retrieval



**Description**: Data storage devices, timing and capacity, programming for files, hashed and indexed files, introduction to relational database systems. Pre: 211 or consent.

**Objectives**

* Students have a broad understanding of database concepts and database management system software
* Students have a high-level understanding of major DBMS components and their function
* Students can model an application's data requirements using conceptual modeling tools like ER diagrams and design database schemas based on the conceptual model.
* Students can write SQL commands to create tables and indexes, insert/update/delete data, and query data in a relational DBMS.
* Students can develop a data-intensive application using DBMS APIs.

**Course Learning Outcomes**

* Students have a broad understanding of database concepts and database management system software
* Students have a high-level understanding of major DBMS components and their function
* Students can model an application's data requirements using conceptual modeling tools like ER diagrams and design database schemas based on the conceptual model.
* Students can write SQL commands to create tables and indexes, insert/update/delete data, and query data in a relational DBMS.
* Students can develop a data-intensive application using DBMS APIs.

**Program Learning Outcomes**

* a. Students can apply knowledge of computing and mathematics appropriate to the discipline
* c. Students can design, implement, and evaluate a computer-based system, process, component, or program to meet desired needs
* i. Students can use current techniques, skills, and tools necessary for computing practice
* j. An ability to use and apply current technical concepts and practices in the core information technologies. [BA IT only]
* k. An ability to identify and analyze user needs and take them into account in the selection, creation, evaluation and administration of computer-based systems. [BA IT only]


**Prerequisites**: 211 or consent.

**Textbook(s)**: Database Systems: The Complete Book (2nd Edition).  Hector Garcia-Molina, Jeff Ullman, and Jennifer Widom.  ISBN-13: 978-0-13-187325-4.

**Grading**: Quizzes before every lecture/class (15%)
Assignment 1: Searching large files (10%)
Assignment 2: SQL queries (10%)
Assignment 3: Java Web Application (5%)
Assignment 4: ER Modeling (10%)
Assignment 5: DBMS Application Project (10%)
Midterm Exam (20%)
Final Exam (20%)

**Schedule**

* Week 1: Introduction & Overview of Database Systems (Ch.1)
* Week 2: Relational Model of Data (Ch. 2)
* Week 3: Algebraic & Logical Query Languages (Ch. 5)
* Week 4, 5: The Database Language SQL (Ch. 6)
* Week 6: SQL in a Server Environment (Ch. 9)
* Week 7: Midterm Review and Exam
* Week 8: High-level Database Models: ER models (Ch. 4)
* Week 9: Design Theory for Relational Databases: Functional dependencies (Ch. 3)
* Week 10: Design Theory for Relational Databases: Normal Forms (Ch. 3)
* Week 11: Constraints, Triggers, Views & Indexing (Ch. 7,8)
* Week 12: Overview of Transaction Processing (Ch. 17,18)
* Week 13: Overview of Storage & Indexing (Ch. 13,14)
* Week 14: Overview of Query Processing & Optimization (Ch 15,16)
* Week 15: XML & Semi-structured Data Models (Ch 11,12)
* Week 16: Project Presentation
* Week 17: Final exam