---
layout: default
title: ICS 390
topdiv: container
---

# ICS 390: Computing Ethics for Lab Assistants



**Description**: The course concentrates on the theory and practice of computer and information ethics. It covers the basics of ethical decision‐making, and emphasizes group work and presentations. Topics studied in the course include risk and reliability, privacy, info‐war, crime, access, business ethics, copyright, patents, and other relevant, timely issues. The class uses writing (term papers, weekly on-line written discussions and reviews, and critiques) to promote the learning of course materials. The class uses oral presentations and activities (presentations, class discussions, critiques, lab sessions, contact hours, and teaching) to promote learning courses materials.

**Objectives**

* Students can explain different ethical schools of thought.
* Students can apply ethical reasoning skills to situations.
* Students can develop and implement lesson plans.
* Students can effectively communicate in various situations.
* Students can explain legal, moral, and ethical issues concerning technology.
* Students can explain the impact of computers in society, locally, and globally.

**Course Learning Outcomes**: See objectives.

**Program Learning Outcomes**

* d. Students can function effectively on teams to accomplish a common goal
* e. Students have an understanding of professional, ethical, legal, security and social issues and responsibilities
* f. Students can communicate effectively with a range of audiences
* g. Students can analyze the local and global impact of computing on individuals, organizations, and society
* h. Students can recognize the need for and an ability to engage in continuing professional development
* i. Students can use current techniques, skills, and tools necessary for computing practice
* j. An ability to use and apply current technical concepts and practices in the core information technologies. [BA IT only]
* n. An ability to assist in the creation of an effective project plan. [BA IT only]


**Prerequisites**: 101 (Alpha) and consent.

**Textbook(s)**: Ethics for the Information Age, 6th Edition, Michael J. Quinn

**Grading**: 2 essays (8% each), on-line discussion (27%), in-class discussion and facilitation (15%), presentation (8%), lab and open lab support (14%), teaching (18%), instructional critique (2%).

**Policies**: -	Plagiarism will not be tolerated. All sources must be cited. Instruction on how to correctly cite a source will be given before the first paper is due. An assignment including plagiarized material will receive an F. 
-	Late assignments will lose 10% for each day late (starting immediately after the time the assignment is due). The final essay and on-line discussions will not be accepted for credit if they are submitted late.  All assignments are required, even if they are too late to be worth anything.  
-	Attendance is required at all course sessions. If a student would like to make-up missed work due to a valid excused absence, the student must contact the instructor and provide documentation for the excused absence on the day the student returns to class.

**Schedule**

* Week 1: Class Orientation, 
* Week 2: Discussion leader and mediation techniques, academic honesty, and time management, 
* Week 3: Catalysts for Change, 
* Week 4: Intro to Ethics, 
* Week 5: Networking, 
* Week 6: Intellectual Property, 
* Week 7: Information Privacy, 
* Week 8: Privacy and the Government, 
* Week 9: Computer and Network Security, 
* Week 10: Computer Reliability, 
* Week 11: Professional Ethics, 
* Week 12: Work and Wealth, 
* Week 13-Week16: Final Presentations