---
layout: default
title: ICS 431
topdiv: container
---

# ICS 431: Computer Architecture



**Description**: Memory management, control flow, interrupt mechanisms, multiprocessor systems, special-purpose devices.

**Objectives**: -	Students have a solid understanding of the fundamentals in computer architectures.
-	Students can implement simple computer architectures and their submodules.
-	Students can simulate simple computer architectures.
-	Students can quantitatively evaluate simple computer designs and their sub-modules.
-	Students can relate computer architecture to system software and the performance of application programs.

**Program Learning Outcomes**

* a. Students can apply knowledge of computing and mathematics appropriate to the discipline
* b. Students can analyze a problem, and identify and define the computing requirements appropriate to its solution
* c. Students can design, implement, and evaluate a computer-based system, process, component, or program to meet desired needs
* d. Students can function effectively on teams to accomplish a common goal
* e. Students have an understanding of professional, ethical, legal, security and social issues and responsibilities
* f. Students can communicate effectively with a range of audiences
* g. Students can analyze the local and global impact of computing on individuals, organizations, and society
* h. Students can recognize the need for and an ability to engage in continuing professional development
* i. Students can use current techniques, skills, and tools necessary for computing practice


**Prerequisites**: 331 or EE 361/361L.

**Textbook(s)**: S. M. Mueller & W. J. Paul, Computer Architecture - Complexity&Correctness, ISBN 3-540-67481-0, Springer Verlag, 2000.

John P. Shen & Mikko H. Lipasti, Modern Processor Design, ISBN 0-07-057064-7, McGraw Hill, 2005.

**Grading**: Projects (40%), Homeworks (35%), Exams (25%)

**Schedule**: Computer Performance, Quantitative Evaluation, Instruction Set Architectures, Pipelining, Interrupts, Memory Hierarchies, Speculative Execution, Simulation and Verification.