---
layout: default
title: ICS 466
topdiv: container
---

# ICS 466: Design for Mobile Devices



**Description**: Lecture introducing design issues, programming languages, operating systems and mark-up languages for internet-enabled mobile devices, such as cell phones and PDAs.

**Objectives**: Internet-enabled mobile devices, such as cell phones, e-readers and tablet computers, are increasingly common. This course helps students understand the relevant issues in designing for such devices, and teaches them about current and future standards, practices, programming languages and operating systems for mobile devices. It also encourages students to think about how non-technical issues – business models, cultural attitudes, and so on – can affect mobile design. The course is organized around a term project, in which students design, implement and test a mobile-oriented service or site. Students are encouraged to adopt an entrepreneurial attitude towards their projects, and should consider target markets, revenue streams etc., as well as technical and design issues.

**Course Learning Outcomes**: Students have: 
* An understanding of the current state of the mobile industry, and its likely near future. 
* An understanding of the history of mobile devices, platforms, software, carriers, infrastructure and markets.
* An understanding of the principles of design for mobile devices, and of how those principles are applied on currently available mobile platforms. 
* The ability to plan, design and implement a mobile application, site or service.
* The ability to give a clear and concise verbal description of a mobile application, site or service (i.e. an “elevator pitch”).
* The ability to storyboard, film, narrate and edit a short video on a mobile application, site or service. 
* The ability to write clearly, professionally and effectively.

**Program Learning Outcomes**

* a. Students can apply knowledge of computing and mathematics appropriate to the discipline
* b. Students can analyze a problem, and identify and define the computing requirements appropriate to its solution
* c. Students can design, implement, and evaluate a computer-based system, process, component, or program to meet desired needs
* d. Students can function effectively on teams to accomplish a common goal
* f. Students can communicate effectively with a range of audiences
* h. Students can recognize the need for and an ability to engage in continuing professional development
* i. Students can use current techniques, skills, and tools necessary for computing practice


**Prerequisites**: 314 or consent.

**Grading**

* Postings: 2.5% (1% for the original post, 1% for the review, and 0.5% for the response to the review) per week x 14 weeks = 35%
* Project (60%). Each team project part will be evaluated based on the written work and the video presentation.
i. Project proposal/design (15%): Teams will submit a description (~5 pages) of the proposed project, and will also give a short video presentation.
ii. Project design/implementation (15%): A partial or full (depending on the scale of the proposal) implementation of the project described in the proposal. Teams will submit documentation (~5 pages) of the implementation, and will present the implementation to the class in a short video.
iii. Project evaluation (15%): An evaluation of the implemented project, using real users (probably classmates) and sound evaluation techniques. (10% on own evaluation / 5% evaluation of other team, for a total of ~5 pages)
iv. Final project submission (15%): Teams will resubmit stages I-III as described above, incorporating feedback from the professor and from other students, and will present their full project in a short video.
v.	Other activities (5%): TBD. For example, Hackathon participation.

**Policies**: Students must adequately complete all writing and oral assignments to pass the course with a D grade or better. Students who do not complete all writing and oral assignments will get a D- or an F and will not earn W or O Focus credit.

Late project documents/videos lose 10%/day, starting at 5pm on due date. Documents/videos over 5 days late will be graded out of 50%. All documents/videos must be handed in by May 8. Weekly Laulima postings will not be graded if posted after the due date. 

For all evaluated work, students may hand in a draft at least one week before the due date, for detailed feedback.

An occurrence of academic dishonesty will result in a grade of 0 for the assignment or exam and a memo in your ICS department file describing the incident.  Should there already be a memo of this type in your file, you will receive an F for the course, and the incident will be referred to the Dean of Students.

**Schedule**

* Part 1	20-Feb
* Part 2	20-Mar
* Part 3	24-Apr
* Resubmit	8-May