---
layout: default
title: ICS 426
topdiv: container
---

# ICS 426: Computer System Security



**Description**: Information flow, confinement, information assurance, malicious programs, vulnerability analysis, network security, writing secure programs.

**Objectives**

* Develop your own framework for thinking about the ethical consequences of major technological impacts
* Analyze several major issues threatening the security of information in society
* Learn and apply the 24 Deadly Sins of Software Development
* Understand and apply IT network defense strategies

**Course Learning Outcomes**: See objectives.

**Program Learning Outcomes**

* a. Students can apply knowledge of computing and mathematics appropriate to the discipline
* c. Students can design, implement, and evaluate a computer-based system, process, component, or program to meet desired needs
* d. Students can function effectively on teams to accomplish a common goal
* e. Students have an understanding of professional, ethical, legal, security and social issues and responsibilities


**Prerequisites**: 351 or 451, or consent.

**Textbook(s)**: Dark, Melissa, ed. (2010). Information Assurance and Security Ethics in Complex Systems: Interdisciplinary Perspectives. ISBN: 978-1-61692-245-0
 
Howard, M., LeBlanc, D and Viega, J. (2009) 24 Deadly Sins of Software Security: Programming Flaws and How to Fix Them. New York: McGraw-Hill.
ISBN: 978-0-07-162675-0

**Grading**: Homework (4) 40%
Midterm: 10%
Final project: 20%
Final exam: 15%
Participation: 5%

**Schedule**

* Weeks 1, 2: Overview
* Weeks 3, 4: Insider Threat
* Weeks 5, 6: Data breach
* Week 7: Midterm
* Weeks 8, 9: Implementation Sins: Security Flaws
* Weeks 10, 11: Cryptographic Sins
* Weeks 12, 13: Networking Sins
* Weeks 14, 15, 16: Final project
* Week 17: Final exam