---
layout: default
title: ICS 422
topdiv: container
---

# ICS 422: Data Processing



**Description**: Role of data processing in organizations, programming practices, ethics, sequential and indexed file processing, report writing, online transaction processing

**Objectives**

* Students understand different paradigms of processing different types of data.
* Students are able to program data-intensive applications using different data management technologies
* Students understand different approaches in data cleaning
* Students are able to program extract-transform-load processes on data
* Students are able to build and use a data warehouse for advanced data analytics
* Students understand parallel and distributed data processing strategies
* Students understand non-SQL-based data processing technologies

**Course Learning Outcomes**: See objectives.

**Program Learning Outcomes**

* a. Students can apply knowledge of computing and mathematics appropriate to the discipline
* b. Students can analyze a problem, and identify and define the computing requirements appropriate to its solution
* c. Students can design, implement, and evaluate a computer-based system, process, component, or program to meet desired needs
* d. Students can function effectively on teams to accomplish a common goal
* e. Students have an understanding of professional, ethical, legal, security and social issues and responsibilities
* i. Students can use current techniques, skills, and tools necessary for computing practice
* j. An ability to use and apply current technical concepts and practices in the core information technologies. [BA IT only]
* k. An ability to identify and analyze user needs and take them into account in the selection, creation, evaluation and administration of computer-based systems. [BA IT only]


**Prerequisites**: 321 or consent.

**Textbook(s)**: None. Readings will be drawn from articles, tutorials on the internet as well as articles from academic conference papers and journals.

**Grading**

* Homework Assignments (30%)
* Weekly quizzes (20%)
* Course project (50%)

**Schedule**

* Week 1: Overview of Data Management Technologies
* Week 2: Relational Database Systems
* Week 3: Semi-structured Database Systems
* Week 4,5: Data Warehousing
* Week 6,7: Parallel Database Systems
* Week 8,9: NoSQL Data Management Systems
* Week 10,11: Streaming Data 
* Week 12,13: Map-Reduce and other parallel data processing models.
* Week 14,15: Data Mining
* Week 16: Project Presentations