---
layout: default
title: ICS 461
topdiv: container
---

# ICS 461: Artificial Intelligence



**Description**: Survey of artificial intelligence: natural language processing, vision and robotics, expert systems. Emphasis on fundamental concepts: search, planning, and problem solving, logic, knowledge representation.

**Objectives**: See learning outcomes.

**Course Learning Outcomes**

* To understand the historical, cultural and philosophical underpinnings of AI.
* To be familiar with the wide range of goals and approaches that define the field of AI.
* To understand the importance of representation and search in AI and in computer science in general, and to be able to describe key representation strategies and search algorithms.
* To understand and be able to describe in some detail some of the sub-fields of AI, including planning, machine learning, robotics, natural language processing and autonomous agents.
* To be familiar with the key algorithms associated with these sub-fields, and to be able to describe their strengths and weaknesses.
* Given a real-world problem, to be able to suggest AI approaches that might be appropriate for that problem.
* To be able to read and think critically about articles on current AI research and development.

**Program Learning Outcomes**

* a. Students can apply knowledge of computing and mathematics appropriate to the discipline
* b. Students can analyze a problem, and identify and define the computing requirements appropriate to its solution
* c. Students can design, implement, and evaluate a computer-based system, process, component, or program to meet desired needs
* f. Students can communicate effectively with a range of audiences
* i. Students can use current techniques, skills, and tools necessary for computing practice


**Prerequisites**: 311 or consent.

**Textbook(s)**: Artificial Intelligence: A Modern Approach, by Stuart Russell and Peter Norvig

**Grading**: Assignments (6): 15% each, 90% total
Online contributions: 10%  

Assignments are strictly due at midnight on the due date. After that, assignments will lose 10% per day for each day late, up to five. After five days, the assignment will be graded out of 50%. All assignments must be completed satisfactorily to pass the course with a D grade or better.

**Policies**: Plagiarism and cheating are not tolerated in this course. If a student is caught cheating or plagiarizing, s/he will fail the course, and further disciplinary action may be taken.

**Schedule**

* Week 1: History and philosophy of AI 
* Week 2: Intelligent agents
* Week 3 & 4: Search and heuristics
* Week 5 & 6: Logic and planning 
* Week 7 & 8: Machine learning
* Week 9: Evolutionary computation
* Week 10 & 11: Natural language processing 
* Week 12: Perception
* Week 13: Robotics
* Week 14: Review