---
layout: default
title: ICS 432
topdiv: container
---

# ICS 432: Concurrent and High-Performance Programming



**Description**: Principles of concurrent and high performance programming. Multi-threading in C and Java for shared-memory programming. Distributed memory programming with Java. Introduction to cluster computing. A-F only.

**Objectives**

* Master concepts of program performance optimization, of multi-core architectures, and of concurrent programming. 
* Become proficient in performance tuning of non-concurrent C programs.		
* Become proficient in multi-threaded programming in C and in Java.	
* Gain hands-on experience in debugging and performance tuning of multi-threaded programs on multi-core architectures.
* Gain exposure to advanced high-performance computing topics such as cluster computing and GPU programming.						 
* Be engaged in a final project in which all the knowledge acquired in the course is applied to optimizing the performance of real-world software.

**Course Learning Outcomes**: (See objectives)

**Program Learning Outcomes**

* b. Students can analyze a problem, and identify and define the computing requirements appropriate to its solution
* c. Students can design, implement, and evaluate a computer-based system, process, component, or program to meet desired needs


**Prerequisites**: 212 or consent.

**Textbook(s)**: No textbook, only lecture notes.

**Grading**: Homework and programming assignments (60%)
Midterm (15%)
Final (25%)

**Schedule**

* Week 1: Review of processes and threads
* Week 2: Java threads and thread safety, Java Swing
* Week 3: Thread Synchronization with Locks and Condition Variables
* Week 4: Threads in C with Pthreads
* Week 5: Semaphores and Monitors
* Week 6, 7: Classic Concurrency Problems
* Week 7: The java.util.concurrent package
* Week 8: Measures of program performance and sequential program optimization
* Week 9: Concurrency and Performance
* Week 10: Multithreading with OpenMP
* Weeks 11, 12: Shared-memory programming for Performance
* Week 13: Identifying bottlenecks, profiling
* Week 14: Hardware and Concurrency
* Week 15: Distributed systems, final review