---
layout: default
title: ICS 415
topdiv: container
---

# ICS 415: Introduction to Programming for the Web



**Description**: Introduction to emerging technologies for construction of World Wide Web (WWW)-based software. Covers programming and scripting languages used for the creation of WWW sites and client-server programming. Students will complete a medium-sized software project that uses languages and concepts discussed in class.

**Objectives**: The student will:
* Create valid Web pages using HTML(5).
* Style HTML pages using CSS.
* Be able to develop their own style sheets.
* Create web sites that work across many different display devices.
* Understand the basics of the JavaScript language.
* Create and use JavaScript programs.
* Learn about a modern web technology.
* Create an 8 to 10 minute presentation about the technology.
* Develop a responsive web site.

**Course Learning Outcomes**: See objectives

**Program Learning Outcomes**

* a. Students can apply knowledge of computing and mathematics appropriate to the discipline
* b. Students can analyze a problem, and identify and define the computing requirements appropriate to its solution
* c. Students can design, implement, and evaluate a computer-based system, process, component, or program to meet desired needs
* d. Students can function effectively on teams to accomplish a common goal
* e. Students have an understanding of professional, ethical, legal, security and social issues and responsibilities
* f. Students can communicate effectively with a range of audiences
* i. Students can use current techniques, skills, and tools necessary for computing practice


**Prerequisites**: 311 or consent

**Textbook(s)**: Course Notes

**Grading**: 10 Assignments, 30%
In class quizzes, 30%
Technology presentation 15%
Final Project 25%

**Policies**: Watch screen casts out side of class. In class work on exercises, practicing web development skills.

**Schedule**

* Week 1: Introduction to the course
* Week 2: HTML(5) and CSS
* Week 3: Responsive Web Design and Bootstrap
* Weeks 4, 5: JavaScript and jQuery
* Weeks 6, 7: Meteor
* Weeks 8 - 11: Technology Presentations
* Weeks 12 - 16: Final Project