---
layout: default
title: ICS 455
topdiv: container
---

# ICS 455: Security and Trust II: Information Assurance



**Description**: Channel security. Trojan and noninterference. Basic concepts of cryptology. Cryptographic primitives. Protocols for authentication and key establishment.

**Objectives**

* Students can apply the computational and mathematical models relevant for information assurance in cyber space.
* Students can analyze the problems of information assurance, and identify and define the computing requirements and cryptographic techniques appropriate to its solution.
* Students can design, implement, and evaluate a computer-based system, process, component, or program to meet security requirements of noninterference, confidentiality, or authenticity and integrity.
* Students can function effectively on teams to accomplish a common goal.
* Students have an understanding of social issues of information assurance.
* Students can communicate effectively with a range of audiences concerned with the problems of information assurance in cyber space.
* Students can analyze the local and global impact of information technologies and their security repercussions on individuals, organizations, and society.
* Students can recognize the need for and an ability to engage in continuing professional and career development in the area of cyber security.
* Students can use current techniques, skills, and tools necessary solving the basic problems confidentiality and privacy, or authenticity and integrity.

**Course Learning Outcomes**: See objectives.

**Program Learning Outcomes**

* a. Students can apply knowledge of computing and mathematics appropriate to the discipline
* e. Students have an understanding of professional, ethical, legal, security and social issues and responsibilities
* g. Students can analyze the local and global impact of computing on individuals, organizations, and society


**Textbook(s)**: 1. Lecture Notes
2. Charlie Kaufman, Radia Perlman and Mike Speciner, Network Security (Prentice Hall 2002, 2nd ed.)
3. Douglas Stinson, Cryptography. Theory and Practice (Chapman and Hall 2005, 3rd ed.)

**Grading**: Homework (4) 40%
Final exam 60%

**Schedule**: 1. Introduction: Private communication in a public world
2. Information, channel and noninterference
3. Encryption and cryptanalysis
4. Modes of operation and stream cipher
5. Key establishment
6. Authentication
7. Challenge-Response and Matching Conversation
8. Protocol Derivations
9. Man-in-the-Middle and Impersonation
10. Pervasive security and multi-channel authentication
11. Review