---
layout: default
title: ICS 424
topdiv: container
---

# ICS 424: Application Frameworks



**Description**: Experience producing applications with at least two different applications frameworks.

**Objectives**

* Students have experience with at least two application frameworks (Microsoft Foundation Classes and OpenGL).
* Students can write technical reports on a variety of topics related to application framework design and implementation.

**Course Learning Outcomes**: See objectives.

**Program Learning Outcomes**

* a. Students can apply knowledge of computing and mathematics appropriate to the discipline
* b. Students can analyze a problem, and identify and define the computing requirements appropriate to its solution
* c. Students can design, implement, and evaluate a computer-based system, process, component, or program to meet desired needs
* e. Students have an understanding of professional, ethical, legal, security and social issues and responsibilities
* f. Students can communicate effectively with a range of audiences
* i. Students can use current techniques, skills, and tools necessary for computing practice
* m. An understanding of best practices and standards and their application. [BA IT only]


**Prerequisites**: 212, 311, and 313; or consent.

**Textbook(s)**: Course notes

**Grading**: 7 technical papers (50%)
7 programming assignments (50%)

**Schedule**: This class is organized into 8 two week modules.  In each of the first 7 modules, students are required to write one program using an application framework (either Microsoft MFC or OpenGL) and write one technical report (from a supplied reading list).

In the final two weeks, the class works together to develop a summary of lessons learned.