---
layout: default
title: ICS 419
topdiv: container
---

# ICS 419: The Science, Psychology and Philosophy of Systems Design



**Description**: Scientific, psychological and philosophical bases of systems design, including a survey of human-factors and ergonomic standards; the nature of innovation and creativity as it relates to systems design. Web-enhanced course.

**Objectives**

* Students can apply top-down and bottom-up design principles.
* Students can evaluate the quality of designed artifacts.
* Students can apply human-computer interaction principles to design.

**Course Learning Outcomes**: See objectives.

**Program Learning Outcomes**

* a. Students can apply knowledge of computing and mathematics appropriate to the discipline
* b. Students can analyze a problem, and identify and define the computing requirements appropriate to its solution
* e. Students have an understanding of professional, ethical, legal, security and social issues and responsibilities
* f. Students can communicate effectively with a range of audiences
* g. Students can analyze the local and global impact of computing on individuals, organizations, and society
* i. Students can use current techniques, skills, and tools necessary for computing practice


**Prerequisites**: two ICS 300-level courses with grade of B or better, or consent.

**Textbook(s)**: Norman, The Design of Everyday Things, 1988-2002

**Grading**: Final exam (10%)
Homework (60%)
Final project (30%)

**Schedule**: Topics are blended throughout the course. Here is the rough amount of time spent on each topic:

* Introduction to system design (2 weeks)
* Top-down design thinking (3 weeks)
* Principles of industrial design (2 weeks)
* Bottom up design (2 weeks)
* Human-computer interaction (3 weeks)
* Ergonomics (2 weeks)
* Review and project presentations (2 weeks)