---
layout: default
title: ICS 423
topdiv: container
---

# ICS 423: Data Security and Cryptography I



**Description**: History of secret communication and confidential data storage. Elements of cryptography and cryptanalysis.  Classical ciphers. Symmetric key cryptography. Public key cryptography. Data security in cyber space.

**Objectives**

* Students understand the main techniques of data security and secret communication, from classical ciphers to modern crypto systems.
* Students acquire a basic capability to reason about secrecy and evaluate security of simple cryptographic constructs within the main models
* Students are able to analyze the need and the suitability of cryptographic primitives in standard applications.
* Students are provided a solid foundation for study non-textbook cryptography and of practical cryptographic applications
* Students' knowledge of data protection and cryptographic techniques is sufficient for practical applications and for research into security.
* Students can function effectively in teams to accomplish a common goal.
* Students have an understanding of social issues of data security and confidentiality, and of particular cryptological and cryptanalytic techniques.
* Students can communicate effectively with a range of audiences concerned with the basic problems of data protections and cryptography.
* Students can analyze the impact of cryptography on individuals, organizations, and society.

**Course Learning Outcomes**: See objectives.

**Prerequisites**: 222 or consent

**Textbook(s)**: 1. Douglas R. Stinson, Cryptography. Theory and Practice. (3rd edition) Chapman and Hall 2005 
2. Serge Vaudenay, A Classical Introduction to Cryptography. Springer 2006
3. Alan G. Konheim, Computer Security and Cryptography. Wiley 2007

**Grading**: 3 homework assignments (25%), midterm test (25%), project and class presentation (25%), final exam (25%)

**Schedule**

* Week 1. Introduction: History of secret communication and data security
* Week 2-3. Classical ciphers and cryptanalysis
* Week 4-7. Information theory of secret communication
    (a) Probability and information 
    (b) Perfect secrecy
    (c) Redundancy and unicity distance 
* Week 8. Midterm Test
* Week 8-11. Symmetric key cryptography
    (a) Confusion and diffusion 
    (b) Feistel networks
    (c) Block ciphers 
    (d) Stream ciphers
* Week 12-15. Public key cryptography
    (a) One-way and trapdoor functions 
    (b) Classic public key primitives
    (c) Semantic and adaptive security
* Week 16. Overview and outlook 
* Week 16. Final exam