---
layout: default
title: ICS 464
topdiv: container
---

# ICS 464: Human Computer Interaction I



**Description**: Application of concepts and methodologies of human factors, psychology and software engineering to address ergonomic, cognitive, and social factors in the design and evaluation of human-computer systems.

**Objectives**: - Understand the basic principles of human-computer interaction.
- Be knowledgeable about the basic human information processing systems of perception, cognition, and action.
- Be knowledgeable about how attention, affect, and environment influence human behavior.
- Understand how to discover and describe the characteristics of diverse users of information systems.
- Understand and have experience applying several interaction design principles.
- Understand and have experience using several user evaluation techniques. 
- Understand how interaction design fits into the iterative development process.
- Be familiar with interaction designers’ tools and work practices, including needs and requirements gathering, iterative prototyping, user testing, field studies, and both oral and written design presentation.

**Course Learning Outcomes**: - Understand the basic principles of human-computer interaction.
- Be knowledgeable about the basic human information processing systems of perception, cognition, and action.
- Be knowledgeable about how attention, affect, and environment influence human behavior.
- Understand how to discover and describe the characteristics of diverse users of information systems.
- Understand and have experience applying several interaction design principles.
- Understand and have experience using several user evaluation techniques. 
- Understand how interaction design fits into the iterative development process.
- Be familiar with interaction designers’ tools and work practices, including needs and requirements gathering, iterative prototyping, user testing, field studies, and both oral and written design presentation.

**Program Learning Outcomes**

* c. Students can design, implement, and evaluate a computer-based system, process, component, or program to meet desired needs
* d. Students can function effectively on teams to accomplish a common goal
* e. Students have an understanding of professional, ethical, legal, security and social issues and responsibilities
* f. Students can communicate effectively with a range of audiences
* g. Students can analyze the local and global impact of computing on individuals, organizations, and society
* h. Students can recognize the need for and an ability to engage in continuing professional development
* i. Students can use current techniques, skills, and tools necessary for computing practice
* k. An ability to identify and analyze user needs and take them into account in the selection, creation, evaluation and administration of computer-based systems. [BA IT only]
* l. An ability to effectively integrate IT-based solutions into the user environment. [BA IT only]
* m. An understanding of best practices and standards and their application. [BA IT only]
* n. An ability to assist in the creation of an effective project plan. [BA IT only]


**Prerequisites**: two ICS 300-level courses or consent.

**Textbook(s)**: Sharp, H., Rogers, Y, & Preece, J. (2011). Interaction Design: Beyond Human-Computer Interaction. Second Edition. John Wiley & Sons. 

Norman, D. (2013). The design of everyday things. Revised and expanded edition. Basic Books.

Norman, D. (2004). Emotional design. Basic Books.

**Grading**: Participation: 15%
2 exams: 15% each
Project: 55%
	
Grade Calculation: 
 >89=A, 80-89=B, 70-79=C, 60-69=D, <60=F 
Plus and minus are part of the final grade.
All work must be completed to receive a grade in the course.

**Policies**: Activities
Each week we will have a lecture on Monday and an interactive seminar session on Wednesday. In the seminar session we will discuss:
•	Chapter readings for the week
•	Any articles assigned for the week
•	Project ideas and progress
The Wednesday interactive seminar is your opportunity to participate in discussion and earn points for the participation requirement.

Project
The course project will involve designing an interactive application based on user requirements. In the first couple of weeks we will form groups (3-4 people each) and pick interesting and challenging topics. In the next couple of weeks the groups will plan goals and a schedule for: A user study? Fieldwork observations? A survey? A prototype with iterations? A requirements document? Etc. This will all make sense as the course evolves.
The final output of the group projects will be:
•	Periodic progress reports on seminar days throughout the semester.
•	A presentation in the second-to-last week
•	A poster at a design showcase
•	A final report summarizing what the group did (due during finals week).

**Schedule**: Week 1: What is Interaction Design?
Week 2: Understanding and Conceptualizing Interaction
Week 3: Understanding Users
Week 4: Collaboration and Communication
Week 5: Affect
Week 6: Exam 1 (RSP 1-5, DOET 1-3, ED 1-3)
Week 6: Interfaces and Interactions
Week 7: Project ideas
Week 8: Data Gathering
Week 9: Data Analysis and Presentation
Week 10: Process of Interaction Design
Week 11: Exam 2 (RSP 6-8, DOET 4-6, ED 5)
Week 11: Project progress
Week 12: Identifying Needs and Requirements
Week 13: Design, Prototyping
Week 14: Evaluation
Week 15: Usability Testing and Fieldwork
Week 16: Analytical Evaluation
Presentations
Presentations