---
layout: default
title: ICS 465
topdiv: container
---

# ICS 465: Introduction to Hypermedia



**Description**: Basic issues of interactive access to information in various formats on computers. Available hardware and software: editing, integration, programming. Implementation of a sample information system.

**Objectives**

* Students have good understanding of fundamental principles of UI (user interface) design that incorporates all media types
* Students can incorporate these principles, methodologies and corresponding technologies in concrete applications

**Course Learning Outcomes**

* Students are familiar with common formats for all media types (video, audio, images, vector graphics, text and layouts.
* Students understand common software patterns used in UI design and integration of various media, in particular MVC (Model-View-Controler), and can apply them.
* Students design a mid-size system with rich UI that integrates all media types.
* Students implement such systems using currently available technologies.
* Students can develop a presentation of a software design and implementation and present it effectively to an audience of peers.

**Program Learning Outcomes**

* c. Students can design, implement, and evaluate a computer-based system, process, component, or program to meet desired needs
* d. Students can function effectively on teams to accomplish a common goal
* f. Students can communicate effectively with a range of audiences
* h. Students can recognize the need for and an ability to engage in continuing professional development
* i. Students can use current techniques, skills, and tools necessary for computing practice
* j. An ability to use and apply current technical concepts and practices in the core information technologies. [BA IT only]
* k. An ability to identify and analyze user needs and take them into account in the selection, creation, evaluation and administration of computer-based systems. [BA IT only]
* l. An ability to effectively integrate IT-based solutions into the user environment. [BA IT only]


**Grading**: 5 homework assignments (10% each)
1 midterm project presentation (20%)
1 final project (30%)

**Schedule**: Week 1: Syllabus, Resources
Week 2: Programming Languages for the implementation of media-rich applications
Week 3: (cont.) Programming Languages for the implementation of media-rich applications
Week 4: Principles of UI design
Week 5: (cont.) Principles of UI design
Week 6: UI design: Graphic design vs. functionality
Week 7: Judging Designs: Great and Bad 
Week 8: (cont.) Judging Designs: Great and Bad 
Week 9: Media Types - Text and Fonts
Week 10: Media Types - Images: formats, creating and display
Week 11: Media Types - Vector Graphics: formats, creating and display
Week 12: Media Types - Audio: formats, playing and recording
Week 13: Media Types - Video: formats, playing and recording
Week 14: Software patterns for UI
Week 15: Software patterns for UI
Week 16: Midterm presentation of project design
Week 17: (cont.) Midterm presentation of project design
Week 18: (cont.) Midterm presentation of project design
Week 19: Layouts
Week 20:  UI for the web
Week 21: Media for the Web
Week 22: Mobile UI
Week 23: Integrating media
Week 24: Structuring UI elements
Week 25: UI components and frameworks
Week 26: (cont.) UI components and frameworks
Week 27: Media components and frameworks
Week 28: (cont.) Media components and frameworks
Week 29: Final presentation of project design and implementation
Week 30: (cont.) Final presentation of project design and implementation
Week 31: (cont.) Final presentation of project design and implementation