---
layout: default
title: ICS 452
topdiv: container
---

# ICS 452: Software Design for Robotics



**Description**: Sensors, actuators, signal processing, paradigms of robotic software design, introduction to machine learning, introduction to computer vision, and robot-to-human interaction.

**Objectives**

* Students will have completed several programming assignments and will also
have implemented a project so that they can acquire experience in software
design for robotics.
* Students will understand basic hardware aspects of robotics and how
programming is influences by robotic hardware issues.
* Students will understand the design principles and implement dataflow
programming for robotics.
* Students will understand the programming issues of robotic programming for
individual robots as well as multiple cooperating robots.
* Students will be proficient at programming both semi-autonomous and
autonomous robotic systems.
* Students will learn to add robustness to their software to compensate for sensor and actuator problems.

**Course Learning Outcomes**: See objectives.

**Program Learning Outcomes**

* a. Students can apply knowledge of computing and mathematics appropriate to the discipline
* b. Students can analyze a problem, and identify and define the computing requirements appropriate to its solution
* c. Students can design, implement, and evaluate a computer-based system, process, component, or program to meet desired needs
* g. Students can analyze the local and global impact of computing on individuals, organizations, and society
* i. Students can use current techniques, skills, and tools necessary for computing practice


**Prerequisites**: Two ICS 300-level courses or consent. Recommended: 312 and 313.

**Textbook(s)**: Computational Principles of Mobile Robotics, 2nd Edition, Gregory
Dudek & Michael Jenkin, Paperback, ISBN:9780521692120, July 2010

**Grading**: 3 homework assignments (30%)
Final project (40%)
Final exam (20%)
Inclass participation (10%)

**Schedule**: Week 1: Introduction
Weeks 2, 3 Robotics hardware
Week 4, 5: Movement planning
Week 6: Robust software
Week 7: Signal processing algorithms
Weeks 8, 9: Computer vision
Weeks 10, 11: Machine learning
Weeks 12-15: Advance robotics topics
Week 16: Project presentations
Week 17: Final exam