---
layout: default
title: ICS 421
topdiv: container
---

# ICS 421: Database Systems



**Description**: Principles of database systems, data modeling, relational models, database design, query languages, query optimization, concurrency control data security.

**Objectives**

* Students have a deeper understanding of advanced database technologies including performance tuning, data warehousing, parallel and distributed databases.
* Students are able to install and deploy DBMS software for large data sets
* Students are able to program big data applications using database APIs

**Course Learning Outcomes**: See course objectives.

**Program Learning Outcomes**

* a. Students can apply knowledge of computing and mathematics appropriate to the discipline
* b. Students can analyze a problem, and identify and define the computing requirements appropriate to its solution
* c. Students can design, implement, and evaluate a computer-based system, process, component, or program to meet desired needs
* d. Students can function effectively on teams to accomplish a common goal
* i. Students can use current techniques, skills, and tools necessary for computing practice
* j. An ability to use and apply current technical concepts and practices in the core information technologies. [BA IT only]
* k. An ability to identify and analyze user needs and take them into account in the selection, creation, evaluation and administration of computer-based systems. [BA IT only]


**Prerequisites**: 311 and 321, or consent.

**Textbook(s)**: Database Management Systems, Third Edition. Raghu Ramakrishnan and Johannes Gehrke. ISBN: 0-07-246563-8.

**Grading**: 15% Quizzes
40% Homework (Programming) Assignments
20% Project
15% Mid-term exam
10% Final Exam

**Schedule**

* Week 1: Introduction & Database Design (Ch. 2)
* Week 2: Relational Model & Normal Forms (Ch. 3,19)
* Week 3: Relational Algebra, SQL, Application Programming (Ch. 4,5,6)
* Week 4: Parallel & Distributed DBs (Ch.22)
* Week 5: Query Evaluation (Ch. 12,13,14,22)
* Week 6: Storage, Tree-based Indexes (Ch. 8,9,10)
* Week 7: Hash Indexes, Query Optimization (Ch. 11,15)
* Week 8: Transaction Management (Ch 16,17,18)
* Week 9: Midterm Review & Exam
* Week 10: Distributed Transactions, Data Warehousing (Ch 22, 25)
* Week 11: Data Warehousing (Ch. 25)
* Week 12: Data Mining (Ch. 26)
* Week 13: Performance Tuning (Ch. 20)
* Week 14: Security, Other Types of Databases (Ch. 21)
* Week 15: Project Presentations
* Week 16: Final review and exam