---
layout: default
title: ICS 435
topdiv: container
---

# ICS 435: Machine Learning Fundamentals



**Description**: Introduction to machine learning concepts with a focus on relevant ideas from computational neuroscience. Information processing and learning in the nervous system. Neural networks. Supervised and unsupervised learning. Basics of statistical learning theory.

**Prerequisites**: 311 or consent. Recommended: MATH 307.

**Schedule**: 15 week syllabus, two lectures per week = 30 Lectures.

Lecture 1: Introductory Lecture: Introduction to machine learning and computational neuroscience.

Lecture 2-3: Basic maths skills: review of important mathematical methods, such as differential equations, linear algebra, calculus of variations, probability theory - specifics depend on student needs.

Lecture 4-5: Basic neuroscience:
– Neurons, Synapses.
– Information processing and adaptation in the nervous system. 

Lecture 6-8: From real neurons to artificial neurons:
– Realistic biophysical model: Hodgkin-Huxley model. 
– Simplifications:
∗ Morris-Leccar model.
∗ Integrate-and-fire model 
∗ Threshold units.

Lecture 9-10: Mathematical models of learning: 
– Hebbian learning.
– Spike-timing dependent plasticity.

Lecture 11: From biophysics to machine learning algorithms: the Perceptron algorithm - theory and implementation.

Lecture 12-15: Feed-forward artificial neural networks:
– Theory and implementation.
– Selected applications to contemporary problems. Subject areas are listed below - specifics are adjusted to student interests.

Lecture 16-20: Support Vector Machines (SVMs):
– Introduction to support vector learning.
– Selected applications of SVMs. Subject areas are listed below - specifics are adjusted to student interests.

Lecture 21-25: Recurrent Neural networks:
– Hopfield network.
– Simple recurrent networks.
– Selected applications of recurrent networks, including associative memory and content-addressable memory (CAM).

Lecture 26-30: Unsupervised learning:
– Undergraduate level introduction to cluster analysis: concepts and different types of clustering algorithms.
– K-means and vector quantization.
– Applications: image segmentation, data mining, and other areas (see below) - specifics are adjusted to student interests.

Application subject areas include: robotics, computer vision, speech recognition, time series analysis, renewable energies, mathematical finance, geophysics, medical imaging, and bioinformatics. Students are allowed to add subjects.