---
layout: default
title: ICS 483
topdiv: container
---

# ICS 483: Computer Vision



**Description**: Introductory course in computer vision. Topics include image formation, image processing and filtering, edge detection, texture analysis and synthesis, binocular stereo, segmentation, tracking, object recognition and applications.

**Objectives**: See course-specific learning outcomes.

**Course Learning Outcomes**

* Students understand basic concepts, terminology, principles, models and methods in computer vision and image understanding.
* Students have a broad knowledge for understanding advanced topics and scientific literature in the field of computer vision.
* Students can describe the problems and basic methods of edge detection, texture analysis, stereo analysis, image segmentation, tracking, image retrieval, object recognition.
* Students can implement and systematically test fundamental methods/algorithms of computer vision, image processing, and image analysis.
* Students can design a computer vision system for a specific problem.
* Students can present applications of computer vision systems and identify the limitations of current vision systems.

**Program Learning Outcomes**

* a. Students can apply knowledge of computing and mathematics appropriate to the discipline
* c. Students can design, implement, and evaluate a computer-based system, process, component, or program to meet desired needs
* i. Students can use current techniques, skills, and tools necessary for computing practice
* j. An ability to use and apply current technical concepts and practices in the core information technologies. [BA IT only]


**Prerequisites**: 212 and 311, or consent.

**Textbook(s)**: Computer Vision: A Modern Approach, Second Edition, byDavid A. Forsyth and Jean Ponce, Publisher: Pearson, ISBN-13: 978-0136085928

**Grading**: Homework Assignments (25%)
Course Project (30%)
Midterm Exam (20%)
Final Exam (25%)

**Policies**: Late policy: If you hand in late work without approval of the instructor you may receive zero credit.

**Schedule**

* Week 1. Introduction
* Week 2. Local Shading Models
* Week 3. Color: Physics, Color Perception, Color Spaces
* Week 4. Linear Filters and Convolution
* Week 5. Edge Detection
* Week 6. Texture
* Week 7. Basic Multi-view Geometry, Stereo
* Week 8. Segmentation: Clustering, Midterm Exam
* Week 9. Segmentation: Model Fitting
* Week 10. Segmentation: Probabilistic Methods
* Week 11. Tracking
* Week 12. Template Matching using Classifiers
* Week 13. Object Recognition
* Week 14. Image Retrieval
* Week 15. Image-based Rendering
* Week 16. Project Presentation
* Week 17. Final Exam